testCases.md, before:

# 3-Nov-2025
# Case 1 Run test to understand why Windows is saving JSON with Physio Groups (JSON)
## Issue
Windows fails to save the backup file, showing:

*file:/// can’t open files in this folder because it contains system files*

Removing the description field from the save file picker did not immediately resolve the issue.
Further testing revealed that backup.js was not being rebuilt after edits to backup.ts. The compiled index.html still contained outdated JavaScript.

After deleting backup.js and re-running npm run build, the rebuilt index.html correctly reflected the updated code (verified via grep).

This suggests that the Svelte build pipeline may be using cached .js outputs if they exist.

## Code changes
### Removed description from save file picker
### 
  const canUsePicker =
    typeof (window as any).showSaveFilePicker === 'function' &&
    !window.location.href.startsWith('file:');

  if (canUsePicker) {
    (window as any)
      .showSaveFilePicker({
        suggestedName: filename
      })
## Setup
Windows: use apponfly windows vm
remove description from backup.ts
rm backup.js
npm run build
email groupsapp-without-filetype.html, groupsdata.json to myself 
Store files in Groupapp local folder

# Branch: bug-fix-save-json-remove-metadata 

## Results
### Windows:
- Saves into Downloads folder as Customised Files (*.csv, *.json) 
- Does not show the Physio Groups file type as expected after we removed the description from save file picker
- Does not show file picker on save, saves to Downloads folder
### MacOS:
- MacOs doesn't show file type on save
- Does not show file picker on save, saves to Downloads folder

## Conclusion
Physio Groups Backup Files (.json)* type.
This mismatch likely triggered the Windows security block (“contains system files”).

After removing the description:
- Windows and Mac both skip showing a file type
- Both default to saving into Downloads without error
- However, the file picker no longer appears, which limits UX

## Next Steps
- How can we add a file picker to enable user to save file to the shared folder? 

## Findings
- Single file index.html saves without presenting a file picker
- npm run dev on localhost:5172 shows file picker


# 4-Nov-2025
# Case 2 Mitigate file type issue
## Issue
Windows may block saving files with a specific file type if the file type is not recognized by the system.
We already know that the MS Exchange server blacklists .json files.

## Code changes
- Lines 18-21
 const filename = 'groupsdata.csv';
  const BOM = '\uFEFF';
  const jsonContent = BOM + JSON.stringify(db, null, 2);
  const blob = new Blob([jsonContent], { type: 'text/csv;charset=utf-8' });

## Test Setup
Windows: use apponfly windows vm
MacOs:  use local MBP

# Branch: feature-save-json-with-csv-file-extension

# Test protocol
- save and open
- verify file can be opened and properly imported to restore the database

## Results
### Windows:
- Single file index.html 

### MacOS:
- Single file index.html 
- npm run dev on localhost:5172 

## Conclusion


## Findings

## Next Steps
- How can we add a file picker to enable user to save file to the shared folder?

Commit message:

enabling saving json backup as csv or json suffix, fix duplicate alert issue

testCases.md, after:

# 3-Nov-2025
# Case 1 Run test to understand why Windows is saving JSON with Physio Groups (JSON)
## Issue
Windows fails to save the backup file, showing:

*file:/// can’t open files in this folder because it contains system files*

Removing the description field from the save file picker did not immediately resolve the issue.
Further testing revealed that backup.js was not being rebuilt after edits to backup.ts. The compiled index.html still contained outdated JavaScript.

After deleting backup.js and re-running npm run build, the rebuilt index.html correctly reflected the updated code (verified via grep).

This suggests that the Svelte build pipeline may be using cached .js outputs if they exist.

## Code changes
### Removed description from save file picker
### 
  const canUsePicker =
    typeof (window as any).showSaveFilePicker === 'function' &&
    !window.location.href.startsWith('file:');

  if (canUsePicker) {
    (window as any)
      .showSaveFilePicker({
        suggestedName: filename
      })
## Setup
Windows: use apponfly windows vm
remove description from backup.ts
rm backup.js
npm run build
email groupsapp-without-filetype.html, groupsdata.json to myself 
Store files in Groupapp local folder

# Branch: bug-fix-save-json-remove-metadata 

## Results
### Windows:
- Saves into Downloads folder as Customised Files (*.csv, *.json) 
- Does not show the Physio Groups file type as expected after we removed the description from save file picker
- Does not show file picker on save, saves to Downloads folder
### MacOS:
- MacOs doesn't show file type on save
- Does not show file picker on save, saves to Downloads folder

## Conclusion
Physio Groups Backup Files (.json)* type.
This mismatch likely triggered the Windows security block (“contains system files”).

After removing the description:
- Windows and Mac both skip showing a file type
- Both default to saving into Downloads without error
- However, the file picker no longer appears, which limits UX

## Next Steps
- How can we add a file picker to enable user to save file to the shared folder? 

## Findings
- Single file index.html saves without presenting a file picker
- npm run dev on localhost:5172 shows file picker


# 4-Nov-2025
# Case 2 Mitigate file type issue
## Issue
Windows may block saving files with a specific file type if the file type is not recognized by the system.
We already know that the MS Exchange server blacklists .json files.

## Code changes
- Lines 18-21
 const filename = 'groupsdata.csv';
  const BOM = '\uFEFF';
  const jsonContent = BOM + JSON.stringify(db, null, 2);
  const blob = new Blob([jsonContent], { type: 'text/csv;charset=utf-8' });

## Test Setup
Windows: use apponfly windows vm
MacOs:  use local MBP

# Branch: feature-save-json-with-csv-file-extension

# Test protocol
- save and open
- verify file can be opened and properly imported to restore the database

## Results
### Windows:
- Single file index.html 

### MacOS:
- Single file index.html 
- npm run dev on localhost:5172 

## Conclusion
- Test passed. Removed duplicate alert in Nav and backup.ts. Enabled user to choose .csv or .json file type in Nav.
- saves csv to downloads
- successfully opens csv file and restores the database

## Findings
- not having a file picker is a UX issue and a blocker for saving on the shared folder
- not being able to save to the shared folder means we cannot verify that the save backup to csv will actually work in production

## Next Steps
- How can we add a file picker to enable user to save file to the shared folder?
